242 NoTES.

78. Per solis radios .· this was an usual oath.— Tarpeiaque fialmtna .-
i. e. by the thunder of Jupiter Capitolinus, who had a temple, built on

· - the Tarpeian rock.

79. Oirrhaei . . . vatis: Apollo, who had an oracle at Delphi, near
Cirrha, a city of Phocis, where he was worshipped.

80. Venatricis . . . Puellae .- Diana, the goddess of hunting.

81. Pater AEgoei .· Neptune is said to have had his principal habita-
tion in the AEgaean sea. By pater, here, we are not to understand a
father, as some have interpreted it, by saying, that he was father of
AEgeuS, the father of Theseus. It is a title of reverence, honour, and
power, given to the gods; and sometimes even to demigods and heroes.
Here it may be taken in the sense ospotens.

82. Herculeos arcus .· the bow, put for the arrows, which Hercules
used in killing the Hydra, and which he gave to his companion Phil-
octetes.

84. comedam . . . sinciput .- alluding to the story of Thyeste& the
brother os Atreus, who, having committed adultery· with the wife ot
Atreus, was obliged to eat the child, which his brother killed in re-
venge and served up to him at his own table.

85. Phario . . . aceto .· Pharos was an island of Egypt, from whence
came the best vinegar.

89. Altaria tangunt .· those, who prayed or swore, usually laid their
hands upon the altar.

91. Ita secum : ‘ thus reasons with himself?

93. Isis .· an Egyptian goddess, adopted among the deities of the
Romans, was supposed to be much concerned in inflicting maladies and
diseases on the perjured.-›S'istro .· the sistrum was a sort of timbrel,
used by the priests of Isis, with loose rings on the edge, which, when
shaken, yielded a shrill sound: attho top, it had the figure os a cat,
with a human sace, and below, that of Isis,

97. Ladas .· the name of a famous runner.—Anticyrd: an island in
the ArchipelagO, put for hellebore (its principa] produce), which was con·
sidered good to purge the head, in cases of madness.

98. Archigene .- a physician, famous, probably, sor curing madness.

99. Pisaeae . . . oltvae .· the prize, at the Olympic games‚ was an olive

crown, which is called Pisoean from Pisce, a city of Elis, where these
games were celebrated every fisth year.

 

 

