sumn xv. - 253 -

6. Dim-’dio . , . Mea-wne.- at Thebes, in Egypt, a city having a
hundred gates, there was a colossal statue os Memnon, king of AEthio·'
pia, who was dein hy Achilles, at the siege oi Troyx *this statue was
made of marble, and with such art, that a lute, which was in its hand,
would of itself give a musical sound, when the beams of the sun shone
upon it.

Cambyses, king of Persia, mined the :city and caused the statue to be
broken about the middle, imagining, that the sound came from some
contr-ivance within, but nothing was found. From this time, the music
was thought to be mag-isal.

18. anonim . . . Alcinoo . . . -Uzysaee, having arrived at the island
Corcyra, was entertained by Alcinous, the king, to whom he related
his travels. .

16. In mare . . . punivit.- supposed to be spoken by one of the
company, who was present, when Ulysses gave an account oi his ad-
ventures.

17. Saeva . . . Charybdi .- i. e. he has told such a romance about a
feigned whirlpool, which -he calls Charybdis, in the straits of Sicily,
that he certainly deserves a real one for his pains.

· 18. Loestrygbnas .· the Loestrygones were a rude and savage people
near Formiae, in Italy 3 they were like giants, and devoured men.

19. Scyllam .· Scylla, the daughter of Phorcys, said to have been
changed into a dangerous rock, between Italy and Sicily.-—C'oncurren·
iia . . . Cyaneas .· the C‘yaneoe, otherwise Symplegades, were two
rocks at a short distance from the Thracian Bosphorus, so close to one
another, that they seemed at a distance to be one and the same: and, as
one passed by, they appeared to dash against each other.

20. Plenos . . . utres: when Ulysses arrived at the island of AEolus,
that king of the winds enclosed the adverse wlnds in lealher bags and
hung them up in the ship of Ulyssea, leaving at liberty the west wind
which was favorable. But the companions of UlysseS, wishing to
know what these bags contained, unloosed them3 immediately a tempest
arose and drove them back to the island ofAEolus. Afterwards they sail-
ed to the Laestrygones, where eleven ships were lost3 with only one
remaining they were driven to the island of Ot'rce, a sorcereSS, who
turned many of the mai-iners, by a touch os her wand, into swine.

22. Elpenora .- one ot* the companions of ulyssea

